   

   
     
 
       
     
  
 
 

otherwise create a new plant as per the existing
there is an existing plant in that position by X
plants, and calling the IsClicked method, passing
position. Can you say what plant is at that position, |

  

 
  
   

Task 2: BlackJack continued

use Save As am Visual —_ as this only makes a copy of one f

not the whole project.

 

Z

  

i Modify your code so that it has a list of cards representing the
hand, Add’ list box to show all of the players cards’ (instead of the

text boxes). Add a button so the player can get an extra card.

Then loop through the list and display the list in the listbox
Also, keep a total of the points from the cards in the players hand (list)
Display this total.

   
 

   
     
 
    
   
    
     
    
   
   
    
     
     
    
   

2 When you have this working, do the same for the computers hand. Make? |

"the computer always take an extra card if their total is less than 15%

‘ If you implemented the betting, then the player automatically gets paid if
their hand size is 5 or more cards and the sum is still 21 or less.

Task 3: Reward Points continued

1. The file timmovies.csv contains the movie viewing details of a customer
called Tim. Write a program that reads each line from the file and creates
a movie viewing object using the data. It then checks if the points have
expired (using today’s date), and displays the information about the
points with either the word “expired” or “unclaimed”. You do not need to
store all of the movie viewing objects at this stage (see below). You can
also check your code on the file gawain.csv.

2 Extend your code to store a list of movie-viewing objects along with the
members number. Change the code from step 1 to check if the points
have expired by looping through the list, rather than as they have been
read from the file. Note that this will now need to happen after you have

finished reading the file. Check that your points expiry code still works.

 
