522

Section X1t Punishment and Responsthility

soseaniesena

meen

I.

The classification of Kant as a retributivist! is usually
accompanied by a reference to some part of the fol-
lowing passage from the Rechitslelire, which is worth
quoting at length.

   
   
    
    

  

can

   
  

asa
with regard to the criminal hi
society, but

cause the

f or to civil
only be-

 
  

For one man ought never to be dealt
y as a means subservient to the purpose
of another, nor be mixed up with the subjects of real
right. Against such treatment his inborn personality
has a right to protect him, even though he may be
condemned to lose his civil personality. He must
rae foun uly an pia or
be any t of drawing from his punishment
any benefit for himself or his fellow-citizens. The
Be en and woe to him
serpent-windings of utili-
tarianism to discover some advantage that may dis-
charge him from the justice of punishment, or even
from the due measure of it, according to the Phari-
saic maxim: “It is better that onc man should die
than the whole people should perish.” Por if justice
and righteousness perish, human life would no
longer have any value in the world. . ..
But what is the

mode and measure of punish-
ment which public justice takes as its principle and
standard? It is just the ialidilackaeaiag. by
which the pointer of the scale of justice ts made to
incline no more to the one side than the other. It
may be rendered by saying, that the undeserved evil
which any one commits on another, is to be re-
garded as perpetrated on himself. Hence it may be
said: “If you slander another, you slander yourself,
if you steal from another, you steal from yourself, if
‘ou strike another, you strike yourself; if you ill an-

y :
other, you kill yourself.” This is the

( ; and properly understood,
it is the only principle which in regulating a public

af Legal Punistoment (1966), pp. 2-16, Re-

tionale
ered by pera” of Humanities Press, Inc., Atlantic

Highlands, NJ. 07716.

court, as distinguished from mere Private judg-
ment, can definitely assign both the quality and the
quantity of a just penalty. All other standards are
wavering and uncertain; and on account of other
considerations involved in them, they contain no
principle conformable to the sentence of pure and
strict justice.*

Obviously we could mull over this passage for a
long time. What, exactly, is the distinction between the
Inborn and the Civil Personality? How is the Penal
Law a Categorical Imperative: by derivation from one
of the five formulations in the Grundlegung, or as a
separate formulation? But we are on the trail of the
traditional retributive theory of punishment and do
not want to lose ourselves in niceties. There are two

"ae pointe in this passage to which we should give
pa ar attention:

i. The only acceptable reason for punishing a man
is that he has committed a crime.

di, The only acceptable reason for punishing a man
in a given manner and degree is that the punish-
ment is “equal” to the crime for which he is
punished.

These propositions, | think it will be agreed, express
the main points of the first and second paragraphs
respectively. Before stopping over these points, let us
go on to a third. It is brought out in the following
passage from the Rechislehre, which is also often re-
ferred to by writers on retributivism

Even if a civil society resolved to dissolve itself with
the consent of all its members~-as might be sup-
posed in the cane of a people inhabiting an island re-
solving to separate and scatter themselves through-
out the whole world—the last murderer lying in
prison ought to be executed before the resolution
was carried out. This ought to be done [xo] that ev-
eryone may realize the desert of his deeds, and that
bloodguiltiness may not remain upon the people,
for otherwise they will all be regarded as parte od
tors in the murder 4s 4 public violation of justice

It is apparent from this passage

 
       
 

that, [as far] as the
concerned, the

un ent awarded
ried out. if it must be carried out
vali then punishment
