COMPX 102

  

otherwise create a new plant as per the existing code. You can check if
there is an existing plant in that position by looping through the list of
plants, and calling the IsClicked method, passing in the current mouse
position. Can you say what plant is at that position, if one already is?

Task 2: BlackJack continued

Mike a copy of yeu blackjack prograin froin Practical 2, NOTE: Do not
use Save As from Visual Studio, as this only makes a copy of one file,
not the whole project.

Modify your code so that it has a list of cards representing the users
hand. (Xd & list’Box to show all of thé playets caéds\(instead of the two
text boxes). Add a button so the player can get an extra card.

  

Now when"thé player presses” thé Deal bution, it adds’a card to the
“players list. Then {oop through the list and display the list in the listbox.
Also, keep a total of the points from the cards in the players hand (list).
Display this total.

‘When you have this working, do the same for the computers hand, Make’
the computer always take an extra’ ‘card if their total is less than 15.”

If you implemented the betting, then the player automatically gets paid if
their hand size is 5 or more cards and the sum is still 21 o Jess.

Task 3: Reward Points continued

26

1.

The file timmovies.csv contains the movie viewing details of a customer
called Tim. Write a program that reads each line from the file and creates
a movie viewing object using the data. It then checks if the points have
expired (using today’s date), and displays the information about the
points with either the word “cxpired” or “unclaimed”, You do not need to
store all of the movie viewing objects at this stage (see below). You can
also check your code on the file gawain csv.

Extend your code to store a list of movie-viewing objects along with the
members number. Change the code from step I to check if the points
have expired by looping through the list, rather than as they have been
read from the file. Note that this will now need to happen after you have
finished reading the file. Check that your points expiry code still works.

4

oq

L

4

by ta

1

:

=)

a

ud